# Figure captions

- Figure 1. Stacked bar chart that visualizes the artefact category (typology_class_2) distribution in the weapon data subset. The left side labels show the total number of artefacts counted for this category. The colour marking of the bars illustrates the proportion of the artefacts with and without precise typological dating information.

- Figure 2. Map of the macro areas of the archaeological site of Olympia as defined within the parameters of this paper. The background is a site map prepared by DAI-Athens. The colour coding indicates the number of weapon artefacts documented per area.

- Figure 3. Map plot matrix that shows the diachronic development of the weapon distribution (cf. Figure 2) in steps of 10 years from 800 to 400 BC (-800 to -400). The time slot between 1000 and 800 BC is not plotted because of the very small amount of weapon artefacts from this period (cf. Figure 6). For the calculation of the underlying time series, the aoristic weight correction was not applied. Instead, artefacts were counted as one in each timestep that overlaps with the dating range of said artefact: the possible deposition time. The number of displayed artefacts therefore exceeds the actual amounts of artefacts due to multi counting (cf. fig. 7).

- Figure 4. Ridge plot of the temporal distribution of the main artefact categories (typology_class_2). The time series were calculated with the aoristic weight correction. The colour coding indicates the total number of artefacts documented for each category which is also displayed by labels on the left side of the ridges. In comparison with Figure 1, the data were filtered more thoroughly and therefore the total numbers are smaller. The point marker under each ridge shows the centre point of the distribution and the vertical order of categories from bottom to top follows the derived centre point order in time. 

- Figure 5. Ridge plot of the temporal distribution of the detailed artefact categories (cf. Figure 4). The plot is based on typology_class_2 and typology_class_4 - typology_class_3 can be excluded, because it is reflected in typology_class_4 for the displayed categories. Only categories represented by ≥ 10 artefacts are shown in this plot.

- Figure 6. Plot panel with four individual plots. A: Time series of all weapon artefacts between 1000 and 400 BC both with and without the aoristic correction. B: Time series based on the temporal attribution of the artefact categories selected for Figure 5. A spline was fit in (R unction stats: smooth.spline ()). C: First derivative of the spline from B. D: Sequence of decade-wise Euclidean distance based on the absolute number of artefacts for the categories in Figure 5. Each decade-decade distance is represented by a colour coded stripe. Points and line show the cumulative sum of the distance values.

- Figure 7. Plot panel with three related plots. A: Schematic drawing of the ancient Greek panoply. B: Barplot of all dated (possibly from 1000 to 400 BC) and typologically classified weapon artefact categories which are part of the panoply. Greaves can be distinguished into armour made for the right or the left leg. This distinction is indicated by colour marking. C: Plot matrix of temporally explicit versions of A. For the calculation of the underlying time series the aoristic weight correction was not applied (with the same consequences as in fig. 3). Each plot represents one point in time and all artefacts that possibly could have existed at that time based on their typological dating range. That implies that certain artefacts were counted towards the totals of multiple subplots.
